Aussie Deals: Where to Buy the LEGO Question Block and Other Gaming Inspired Sets!
Since early 2020, LEGO and Nintendo have enjoyed the perfect marriage of intellectual properties. Think about how well suited the match is in visual terms. You've got the blocky pixelation of the most recognisable 8-bit video game seamlessly interlocking with the blocky...er, blockiness of the LEGO system. That's a chocolate meets peanut butter pairing.

Together, Nintendo and LEGO have allowed fans to cobble together their own real-life Mario levels, and the popularity of that product line only seems to be growing. If that's the play experience your heart desires, I've got you covered below with a sizeable catalogue of the best options (and prices) to get you up, running, jumping and butt-stomping goombas in no time.

I'm also going to highlight the more 'conversation piece' Nintendo LEGO sets as well. These larger and pricier models aren't primarily designed to link with that DIY Super Mario World you've got sprawled across your living room. Mind you, they're not without the odd interactive Easter Egg.

Case in point: today's build. It's a fold-out version of Super Mario's famous Question Mark punchable and it's, well, chock a block full of surprises...
Building the Question Mark Block
Weighing in at 2,064 pieces and a chonky 2.74 kgs (6 lbs), LEGO's Question Mark Block #71395 is one of the most cleverly designed sets I've ever built. In it's basic form, it sure doesn't look like that. However, hidden within its mysterious innards, fans will find four distinct levels from the game: Peach's Castle, Bob-omb Battlefield, Cool Cool Mountain, and Lethal Lava Land. Better yet, you're getting a small handful of impossibly cute microfigure reimaginings of Super Mario 64 characters.

Initially, you'll construct the robust vertices and lines of what will eventually become a 18cm (7″) x 18cm (7″) x 18cm (7″) cube. Soon after, you've then got your first polygonal wall—a hinged element I wrongfully assumed was the front of the set. It's actually the rear block face which serves as the triggering mechanism of the pop-up display to come.

The true front face clips together not long after, and it provides its own fun surprises. Though the top of this block is reserved for a blooming quadruple diorama of in-game levels, the front houses something more important. Yep, it's the climactic final battle with Bowser himself.

Said big bad has his own perch section, along with a neat spinning disc arena that mimics the in-game means to defeat him (grab him by the tail, then spin-chuck him off).
Double jump into a diorama-rama
With the secret nooks and crannies of the Question Block sorted, it's time to handle the level representations. First on the list is the liquid hot magma stylings of Lethal Lava Land. The expected architecture and elements are here—the spinning volcano ring, the big horned Bully, the creepy eyeball—everything. I remember fearing this pain-in-the-butt level, but it looks adorable here in microbuild form.

From there, you'll need to cobble together two rail arms to hold the platform that will rest neatly on top of lavaville. This section will hold the entrance level centrepiece, a scene that practically every gamer will recognise, regardless of whether they've played Super Mario 64 or not.

You're getting the iconic castle, moat, green pipe and a “superdeformed” representation of the castle lobby. It comes with hangable 1x1 blocks of the three level paintings. Said lobby is covered up by an (easily removable) facade which keeps the castle exterior complete. Lastly, to top all that off: microfig interpretations of a secret Yoshi, Princess Peach, Mario and a Lakitu cameraman who captures all your hijinks.

Next up is a level that also needs very little introduction: Bob-omb Battlefield. It's a slightly more complex build, thanks to its undulating hills, canyons and a small open-air jail to house a Chain Chomp. Some of the touches that take this section to the next level include three interactive cannons and King Bob-omb himself. I've got to say—chucking him off that mountain is still satisfying (even if it's against the rules of engagement).

Speaking of hurling people out of bounds, after the next build you can happily pelt a penguin off Cool Cool Mountain. (Be honest, we all did it in Super Mario 64.) Once again, this course has been impressively and meticulously micro-recreated. You're getting a simplified version of the Slip Slidin' ice track, the outer mountain slide you once navigated with a baby penguin, and that pesky narrow drawbridge (complete with annoying snowmen).

A very Mario metamorphosis
When that last (literally) cool addition gets locked into the rest of the diorama, the true magic of this Question Mark Block occurs. Thanks to a series of rubberbands and pivoting hinges, a pretty mind-blowing fold together happens. The dioramas pinch in on one another with next to no negative space left over (so make sure you keep the microfigs in their expected positions). Then, that cluster effectively does a mini backflip as it reverse tucks down into the big yellow box.

Honestly, I've built a lot of LEGO in my time and the child-like wonder of folding/unfolding this finished Question Block never fails to delight me. As it expected, it wowed any visitor to my house when I let them get their mitts on it. That was practically everybody above toddler age, too, because as delicate as it all looks, the breakability factor feels quite low when completed.

Also, there's a side bonus for those of you who have invested in the interactive play Super Mario sets out there. If you add in the LEGO Mario or LEGO Luigi figures from the 71360/71387 Starter Courses (sold separately) you can collect 10 hidden Power Stars to reveal secret reactions and more. Pretty neat stuff.

Despite what's emblazoned all over it, there's little question as to whether this set is worth your time and money. LEGO's Question Block is incredibly well-designed, a joy to construct and it positively oozes nostalgia. If large blocks of your childhood were spent romping through Super Mario 64, like me, this memorabilia will make your heart do a tiny triple-jump for joy every time you open it.


